Romantic comedy (something like that)

Lecture by Lisa May tomorrow 2PM SAC 2.302

E8:
    Analysis/ 2 lines of couplet of Austen into Pope-like heroic couplet. 
   
The Jane Austen Phenomenon
    sees reading as stimulation, arousal, climax, etc.
    not knowing what will happen

Style:
    Witty, ironic
    Blending of narrator with the story
    Closer to 18th century in style
    General descriptions
        ex: "Miss Darcy was tall..."
            (p.169 vol 3, ch 2)
    ex: "Scarlett O'Hara was not beautiful ... " - this passage tells us alot
    such as telling us the Tarleton brothers are twins and is a much more concrete
    description in comparison to the description before. 

    Different styles and perspective on styles to art. Thus changes is imminent.
    
    The Changing nature of Representation:
    
    -Allegory is going down (during renaissance), realism going up 
    (during 18th and 19th, more specific), 
    -allegory: story or visual image with a second distinct meaning partially
         hidden behind its literal or visiable meaning.
    -realism: concrete descriptions, more direct, reflecting and recording of the
        "actual" way of life. 

    Bennets in PP
        Mary - learning, naive, 
        Jane - beauty, naive, virtuous
        Lydia - Passion (adventurer)
        Mrs. Bennet - characteristics between Jane and Lydia
        Mr. Bennet - wit and irony, study that he goes to when women are annoying.
            Mary shares character with the father.
        
        Elizabeth - all aspects, not as beautiful as Jane, etc.  
        Kitty - blank slate that takes in things around her.

    
Selected Scenes and incidents, vol .1
    Public Ball at Meryton Vol. 1, chapter 3 (pp. 6-10)
        Small town with something finally happen (Reed in Alvin). People are anxious 
        and interested. Invlolves a dance that is intricate and important.
    Jane dining at Netherfield. Vol. 1 chapter 7 (19-24)
        And your defect is a propensity to hate everybody.
        And yours - Darcy replies
        Tension between Jane and Darcy
    Elizabeth to Darcy Vol 1. chapter 18 p. 64
        Darcy is very little known, Elizabeth is trying to figure him out. 
        - "Merely to the illustartion of your character .. I am ... "
    Mr. Collins arrives Vol 1. Chapter 13 (pp. 41 ff.)
        Mr. Collins enters and believes he can choose. Looks at Jane then Elizabeth.
        Looks at them like food or mouse.
    We meet Wickham Vol. 1 Chapter 15 48-51
        Solider who is nebulous
    Ball at Netherfield Vol. 1 Chapter 18 pp 61
        Mr. Bingley's home - has eyes on Jane
    Collins proposes to Elizabeth
        Collins is not a good match to her because he has no humor, not gracious, 
        and not admirable or respectable.   
        
        Mr. Bennet gives Elizabeth advice and believes that she must be comfortable
        with her spouse. 

Now for Vol 2
    Jane searches for Mr. Bingley in London 
    Elizabeth visits Rosings
        Rosings - largest house, separation of classes and order in the court.
    Darcy proposes to Elizabeth
        She says no, believes that he is proposing against better judgement. 
        He controls huge wealth, and doesnt think this marriage will work out.
    Darcy's Letter 

Bad Jane
    Much more interesting
    More human - less Disney more animosity and hatred
    Smug, anti-social, satirist - Pope description
    
Mr & Mrs Bennet
    
Elizabeth       Darcy               (power couple)
    - taking care of Kitty and other siblings.  
    - Elizabeth serves as a mother  
    - Darcy is like a father to Georgiana
    - You write novels to make a world the way you want it to be.
